# Automatic Surveillance of Bacteriological Strains within Clinical Settings


This repository contains a series of Python scripts and Jupyter Notebooks implementing the Efficient Peak Information KErnel (E-PIKE) and Standard Peak Removal (SPR) method for MALDI-TOF MS data processing. Specifically, the E-PIKE and SPR method are designed to highlight non-common peak differences between bacteriological isolates belonging to different strains of the same species.

## Paper link

Paper is not yet publicly available.

## Overview

The project includes the following key scripts:

1. **E-PIKE (e_pike.py):** Implements the E-PIKE in a redy-to-use Python class.
2. **Scale Normalization (normalization.py):** An adaptation of the Scale Normalization step introduced by C. Weis et al in the [original PIKE implementation](https://github.com/BorgwardtLab/maldi_PIKE).
3. **Kernelization Pipeline pipeline.py):** A ready-to-use class implementing all three pipelines considered in our paper, including the SPR implementation.

## Installation

To set up the project using Conda, follow these steps:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/rafardzp/Strain-Surveillance.git

# Create a Conda environment from the .yml file
conda env create -f environment.yml

# Activate the Conda environment
conda activate your-env-name
```

## Usage

Each script can be run independently, depending on the specific analysis you wish to perform. Here are the general steps to follow:

1. **Prepare Your Data:** Ensure your speech data is correctly formatted and stored in the required directories.
2. **Configure Hyperparameters:** Adjust the hyperparameters in each script according to your data and analysis needs.
3. **Run the Script:** Execute the script using a Python interpreter. For example:

   ```bash
   python MARTA_unsupervised.py --fold 0 --gpu 1
   python MARTA_Supervised.py --fold 0 --gpu 1
   python MARTA-S_classifier.py --fold 0 --gpu 1
   ```

4. **Analyze Results:** Check the output files and visualizations generated by the scripts for analysis.

Detailed usage for each script is documented within the script files themselves.

In case you want to train all folds, you can use __run_parallel.sh__ bash script.


## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. Please follow the standard fork-and-pull request workflow on GitHub. If you have any suggestions or improvements, feel free to fork the repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Please see the `LICENSE` file for more details.

## Contact

For any queries or further assistance, please reach out to [Msc. Rafael Rodríguez](mailto:rrpalomo@tsc.uc3m.es).
